core/ext/riverlea/README.md, before:

# RiverLea Theme Framework

This Framework separates CiviCRM's visual/UI CSS from structural CSS, using CSS variables. Installing it provides you with four new Riverlea Themes or "Streams" which are almost entirely created with CSS variables:
 - Minetta, named after the river that runs under Greenwich, NYC. It is based on Civi's default 'Greenwich' theme.
 - Walbrook, named after the river that runs under Shoreditch, London. It is based on Shoreditch/TheIsland theme.
 - Hackney, named after the river that runs under Finsbury Park, based on Finsbury Park theme.
 - Thames, named after the river that runs close to Artful Robot HQ, based on their Aah theme.

When you enable CiviCRM, you will see these themes in your usual CiviCRM theme options on the Display Settings page, where you can also set your dark mode preferences.

## Changelog

Is at [Changelog.md](CHANGELOG.md).

## Version numbering

RiverLea has its own version numbering: `[River Lea version]-[CiviCRM version built on]`. This means there might be simultaneously versions `1.2.1-5.81.beta` and `1.3.0-5.82.alpha`. Please ignore previous numbering patterns.

## Documentation

Please see [https://docs.civicrm.org/dev/en/latest/framework/theme/riverlea/](docs.civicrm.org/dev/en/latest/framework/theme/riverlea/).

Commit message:

CiviCRM upgrade to 6.8.0 rc
Note that this is our second upgrade since switching to standalone so not quite bedded in
(our prior process was harder). What I have done is

1) checked out rc branch 6.8 locally & committed it
 - I'm relying on our gitignore to keep out the files we don't want - e.g tests
2) verified vendor updates - I checked the remove composer.lock and the
only change is to composer.json - Drop support for older firebase/php-jwt. Require 6+
Given that I'm just gonna try a composer update as a follow on (I think we might not
need / get that update)
3) ran composer install in core folder & then deleted vendor again. I did this
because although we have incorporated civicrm/vendor in our main vendor using
composer-merge-plugin it DOES apply a couple of extension patches. These rarely change
but if they had I think running composer install in the core directory would have shown
that up.

So,ultimately this commit is exactly what is in the core 6.8 branch less a few ignored
files from our git ignore

Bug: T406645
Change-Id: I840c6aa3599c5e70feb5f011989c48563185ecd7

core/ext/riverlea/README.md, after:

# RiverLea Theme Framework

This Framework separates CiviCRM's visual/UI CSS from structural CSS, using CSS variables. Installing it provides you with four new Riverlea Themes or "Streams" which are almost entirely created with CSS variables:
 - Minetta, named after the river that runs under Greenwich, NYC. It is based on Civi's default 'Greenwich' theme.
 - Walbrook, named after the river that runs under Shoreditch, London. It is based on Shoreditch/TheIsland theme.
 - Hackney, named after the river that runs under Finsbury Park, based on Finsbury Park theme.
 - Thames, named after the river that runs close to Artful Robot HQ, based on their Aah theme.

When you enable CiviCRM, you will see these themes in your usual CiviCRM theme options on the Display Settings page, where you can also set your dark mode preferences.

## Changelog

From 6.7 this is on CiviCRM's Gitlab at [lab.civicrm.org/riverlea/CHANGELOG.md](https://lab.civicrm.org/extensions/riverlea/-/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).

## Version numbering

RiverLea has its own version numbering: `[River Lea version]-[CiviCRM version built on]`. This means there might be simultaneously versions `1.2.1-5.81.beta` and `1.3.0-5.82.alpha`. Please ignore previous numbering patterns.

## Documentation

Please see [https://docs.civicrm.org/dev/en/latest/framework/theme/riverlea/](docs.civicrm.org/dev/en/latest/framework/theme/riverlea/).
